## Questions

#### Have you been part of a successful (or not!) team?
#### Did you move through the forming, storming, norming and performing steps?
#### How could you have early conversations within your team to shortcut the storming phase?

## Response

I have been part of both successful and non successful teams before.

If I look at my most successful team, I instantly think of my business partnership with Paras that has also spilled over into our studies together. We have built so much together - including a rewarding friendship. When we moved to start working together, we were still in the “forming” part of our friendship. This made working together initially extremely easy. As we have grown closer however differing opinions emerge. Small conflicts started and we (at least I) became more emotional. By this point we were in the "storming" phase of our development. Paras and I never had serious problems however - even with the very real stress we were both under - we focused on being open and honest with each other and maintaining dialogue “norming”. This open and honest dialogue rapidly speed up our “norming” phase and we have been “performing” now for a long time now. This honesty and dialogue is something I hope to bring forward to every team I am on in the future, but I appreciate how different this would be if we were not friends.

### Ideas

I think that this model might be a bit old.
Something I might consider is exploring an agile version of this framework in my work that might better explain teams in our century. With the birth of agile development, it only makes sense, right? I could imagine a system that takes into account churn of employees in a professional team.

