## Questions

#### Universities are a somewhat emergent system based on old traditions. Let's look beyond 2025 - what kind of university will the graduates of 2050 need? What changes would you implement, and what would you keep?

## Response

I think Chris's reflection on this question was extremely salient. There is a core quote in this course "Universities serve to make students think, to resolve problems by argument supported by evidence; not to be dismayed by complexity, but bold in unravelling it." and as Chris notes its almost impossible to not think this is the direction that we ought to and most likely will go.

If the point of university was to prepare students to get a good Job - or at the other end of the spectrum - some quest for self-improvement, the curriculum would look very different. The truth is University - like life - has a different purpose to the beholder.  They are complex systems that fulfil a variety of functions. All-encompassing or umbrella truths about university like “to get people thinking” can capture most of not all these possible purposes. If you wanted a great job, to know more about who you are or to further humanity, practicing thinking is one of the best things you can do. The point is to give you the only form of Universal knowledge there is. The ability to have original thought, the ability to think critically and the ability to ponder confidently.

This begs some questions. If University is truly moving this way what does this mean for the work force? How might a leader accommodate people better equipped to think beyond the complicated and ready for complex? 

Industry will change as the university scene changes. Currently university has a strong preference for knowledge as opposed to the ability to think. I think that we will need to be able to support workers who need less oversite and more freedom. We will also need to be able to have systems for job related knowledge as less knowledge is acquired at university in favor of soft and critical skills. This shift will also presumably diversify the work place a lot something else we will need to consider.

### Ideas

Design a flat(ter) leadership structure that can accommodate increased independence in members and more diverse teams.’
