## Questions

#### Although elements of Complexity thinking have been around for decades, Complexity Science is still considered an academic area akin to the wild-west: it is not one coherent areas, it can be many things. Consider your own thoughts on 'what is complexity?'. What do you think it is, and would you describe it to your nearest and dearest (ie when you tell them you're in this class).

## Response

I am very partial to the Cynefin framework. The Cynefin framework lets us talk about complexity in an obvious/simple way by providing us with a sense of place. The framework does do more than just classify complexity but that is certainly one of its primary uses. The framework allows for easy pigeonholing of problems into four clusters. The complex cluster - or the complexity domain if you will - is what I like to consider this class to be about. It’s an infinite set of problems that share some common themes. A common them is that none of the complex problems will make it easy for you to understand, they all require work and effort to unravel.
ß
In explaining what complexity is to my friends and family I would probably start with the notion of "Emergent Practice" and the idea of Unkown Unknowns. "Emergent" is such a fitting word as it not only captures the literal 'newish' nature of the types of practice we take to solutions but also the connotative 'unexpectedness'. This links well with the notion of Unknown Unknowns; the things we don’t even know we are unaware of. 

I think that having this mental modal of complexity is extremely valuable in a practical sense, but I do wonder if it oversimplifies. I need to be careful to not over apply simplicity, I need to get more comfortable existing in the complex domain.

I'll try the other side of the coin; I'll try channel the voice in Sand Talk - the learned and wholist - and accept that complexity is also at least partially unquantifiable.

### Ideas
I wan't to explore a 3D Cynefin model where each problem has a representation on each layer.

Maybe when we consider different parts of the model at different layers, we get different ideas? Labeling different tools, eg agile vs waterfall, theoretical vs practical.

