## Questions

#### Although elements of Complexity thinking have been around for decades, Complexity Science is still considered an academic area akin to the wild-west: it is not one coherent areas, it can be many things. Consider your own thoughts on 'what is complexity?'. What do you think it is, and would you describe it to your nearest and dearest (ie when you tell them you're in this class).

## Response

I am very partial to the Cynefin framework. In a self-referential way - considering it is in and of itself is dealing with a complex medium - the Cynefin framework lets us use it to talk about complexity in an obvious/simple way by providing us with a sense of place. While the framework does do more than just classify complexity, its simple, measurable and digestible way of classing complexity is certainly one of its primary uses. The framework allows for easy pigeonholing of problems into a cluster. The complex cluster - or the complexity domain if you will - is what I like to consider this class to be about. It’s an infinite set of problems that share some common themes specifically that they require work and effort to unravel

In explaining what complexity to my friends and family I would probably start with the notion of "Emergent Practice" and the idea of Unkown Unknowns. "Emergent" is such a fitting word as it not only captures the literal 'newish' nature of the types of practice we take to the problems but also the connotative 'unexpectedness'. This links well with the notion of Unknown Unknowns; the things we don’t even know we are unaware of. 

I think that having this mental modal of complexity is extremely valuable it a practical sense, but I do wonder if it oversimplifies. I need to be careful to not over apply simplicity, I need to get more comfortable existing in the complex domain.

I'll try the other side of the coin; I'll try channel the ideas in sand talk - the learned yet academically reluctant and accept that complexity is also at least partially unquantifiable.

### Ideas
I wan't to explore a 3D Cynefin model where each problem has a representation on each layer.

Maybe when we consider different parts of the model at different layers, we get different ideas? Labeling different tools, eg agile vs waterfall, theoretical vs practical

